{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red34\green45\blue53;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww22140\viewh13120\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Welcome to Project 3. This file serves to help with navigation of this directory. Information about the project can be found below. \
\
1) Run Project 3 Data Cleaning.SAS  for summary statistics\
\
2) Run Project 3 Mixed Model for regression \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The overall objective of this study is to identify the trajectories of onset of memory and other cognitive loss in persons at risk of developing mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or dementia. Healthy, community dwelling, cognitively intact elders (n = 156, mean age at entry = 83 years) were enrolled and examined annually for an average of greater than seven years.\'a0 Those who developed at least two consecutive Clinical Dementia Ratings (CDRs) \uc0\u8805  0.5 were classified as having developed MCI.\'a0 We are interested in quantifying the annual rates of change on four cognitive tests in this cohort: The cognitive measures of interest are: (1) the Wechsler Memory Scale Logical Memory I Story A, (2) Wechsler Memory Scale Logical Memory II Story A; (3) category fluency for animals; and, (4) the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised Block Design. Subjects\'a0need to be followed for 3 or more time points to be eligible for analysis.\
\'a0\
Our general questions of interest are:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What is the rate of memory decline based on these measures over the aging process in healthy individuals?\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What is the rate of memory decline based on these measures over the aging process in those diagnosed with MCI/dementia during the study?\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Is there a period of time before the diagnosis of MCI/dementia in which the rate of the memory decline changes (or accelerates)?\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \'a0\
Group 1:\'a0 It is believed that the annual rates of decline accelerate around 4 years prior to the onset of MCI/dementia.\'a0 Question 3 is more specifically asking whether the rates of decline change 4-years prior to the onset of MCI/dementia.\
\'a0\
\
\'a0\
\
\'a0The variables in the dataset are as follows:\'a0\
Id: The study id for that subject\
Gender: 1= Male, 2 = Female\
SES: Socioeconomic Status\
Age: Age at visit in years.\
CDR: Clinical Dementia Rating Scale\
BlockR: The block design test score\
Animals: The category fluency for animals score\
logmemI: logical memory I Story A score\
logmemII: logical memory II Story A score\
Age at onset: age of onset of MCI according to the CDR criteria above.\'a0 If missing then they do not have MCI in their follow-up period.\
Demind: an indicator as to whether the subject gets a MCI/dementia diagnosis with the CDR criteria.. 1 = yes two CDR>=0.5 occur during the study; 0 = no, no consecutive CDR\'92s >=0.5.\
}